Several clothbound books are stacked on the little table by the fire, none of their spines are labeled. The inside pages are covered with the familiar sprawling script of Sal's notations. Most pages are filled with comments such as "Today I tasted something called 'kimchi'. I did not enjoy it". Nothing is dated, though the books appear to have been stacked in chronological order, with the oldest on the top. Several entries draw Solomon's attention. 

"Selena Morris is the most beautiful woman to ever live. Ren disapproves of our relationship, and Doth remains uninvolved, as I knew he would, but Frei has given us her blessing. All of my siblings could oppose this marriage and I would still choose her above all others."

"Today, Selena gave birth to our precious daughter. Salem. A beautiful name for a beautiful child. I cried for many hours. Tonight I shall hold a celebration. If Doth finishes his calendar I will insist upon naming this day after her. " The following page contains an infant's footprint, which has been slightly smudged as if it was touched before it dried. The consecutive 8 pages are all footprints increasing in size, until they no longer fit within the paper.  

"I received a visit from a peculiar little boy today, perhaps no older than my own Salem. He made it through several warded spaces to join me in my study. He was distinctly foreign, but he didn't have the emptiness that Selena did when she first arrived. I consulted with the dragon of ice to the north, but he claims no one travelled that night."

A pressed white lily is sealed between this entry. "My brother Tal got married today. Only Frei and I attended, but I know Doth would have sent his approval one way or another. It was a lovely ceremony. Sevret had a bouquet of lilies and dragon breath. She had wrapped them in luminescent moss that cascaded over her hands. My love teased me for not doing the same for her; I shall find the most talented gardener among my men to create her a paradise. 
Little Salem danced with me, balancing her little toes on mine. My siblings and I never grew like this. It's a wonderful phenomenon. Salem is so little I can still lift her with one hand. Her bones feel as fragile as a birds. Sevret was overjoyed to meet her, I wish my brother and my new sister a very happy family."

"Another visit from the peculiar boy that travels without travelling through stars. He asked me about Father's grave. I worry that may be too much for man to know right now. Ren and Tal are still quarreling, and the basilisks have been disappearing at a suspicious rate. I started much smaller, though I don't know if I'll have the time to explain what these stories mean to Solomon. I don't recall having said anything about the tomb to him, but he insists."

"Doth has made a new friend, though he refuses to introduce me. Through their shared knowledge I have deduced my traveller boy may be visiting from another time. The thought fills me with unease. There is little trace of Tsios Man in the boy, nor any of his progeny. It is hard to tell what this means."

"My brothers are planning something. Something very ill natured, I fear. Ren has lost all reason. Frei seems to have no knowledge of their plans, but Doth is becoming anxious. He has not visited lately, but he asked me to scribe a poem for him, which is highly unusual. He's never been one for linguistical arts after all, even as the King of Creation. I have given him a copy in several languages. I worry. The last time I saw my brother he was carving a coffin out of diamonds so clear I thought he may have sculpted it out of glass."

"Solomon visited again. I finished the last of my favourite books, but I don't know if I'll have the time to answer his questions the next time he visits. He seems faint, like the ghosts in these novels. I remember now, the questions he asked, but they are distorted, as if through a dense fog. The Principal, the fears... If I can remember, I must find him Timo's maps. I must prepare him for what may happen if the tomb is opened." 

"A strange boy visited me today. He brought me a bracelet Doth made and insisted I give it to the other strange child that appears in my study. I assume he meant Solomon, though I haven't told anyone of his visits. Something is amiss. The gods brought here by man are gaining power, jealous of the kings, I imagine. Tal has been besieged by several armies himself, all sent forth by collection of gods from the west. I do not blame them for being angry, I know they were close with Ren, but this is all going too far. They say that Tal has killed three of his brothers so far. Noct has left us to guard the gate. Eiba refuses to speak to me. Ahnshen and Wanshen have passed along their strength to another. This is the end of it all, I think. I will protect what I can. I'm sorry, Salem, keep your mother safe.  I love you."